Medieval -> Steampunk -> Cyberpunk 
Anglo-Saxon / Norse / Roman / Egyptian history / lore mixed with magic 
Inspirations: 
    Dwarf Fortress, Civilization, Runescape, Megaman 
    Dwarf Fortress 
        Roguelike mode 
        Castle mode 
    Civilization 
        In Castle mode, each civ will have one settlement, similar to DF's Castle mode 
        Settlements will eventually have to expand 
        Civs can send out settlers to found to settlements, expanding their empire 
        Can build trade routes between civs 
    Runescape 
        Each individual character has different skills: 
            Mining 
                Used to gather stone, different metals for melee equipment and arrow tips, and rune 
                stones for runecrafting 
                Tier 1 = Copper, Stone 
                Tier 2 = Iron 
                Tier 3 = Steel 
                Tier 4 = Mithril 
                Tier 5 = Adamantium, Obsidian 
            Smithing 
                Used to craft melee weapons, plate armors, chain shirts, and arrow tips 
                Tier 1 = Copper 
                Tier 2 = Iron 
                Tier 3 = Steel 
                Tier 4 = Mithril 
                Tier 5 = Adamantium 
            Farming 
                Tier 1 = Potatoes 
                Tier 2 = Flax 
            Crafting 
            Fishing 
            Cooking 
            Woodcutting 
                Used to gather wood for archery equipment, wands, and other crafting items 
                Tier 1 = Logs 
                Tier 2 = Oak 
            Fletching 
                Used to craft archery equipment and wands 
                Tier 1 = Copper Arrows, Log Bow 
                Tier 2 = Iron Arrows, Oak Bow 
                Tier 3 = Steel Arrows 
                Tier 4 = Mithril Arrows 
                Tier 5 = Adamantium Arrows 
            Melee 
                Determines melee accuracy and tier of melee equipment that can be used 
            Archery 
                Determines ranged accuracy and tier of archery equipment that can be used 
            Magic 
                Runestones possibly made from conductive materials that medieval people don't 
                completely understand, but can eventually be used to create computer chips or 
                similar 
                Determines tier of spell that can be used 
                Tier 1 = Bolt spells (single target) 
                Tier 2 = Ball spells (small aoe) 
                Tier 3 = Cloud spells (persistent aoe) 
                Tier 4 = Explosion spells (large aoe) 
                Tier 5 = Napalm spells (large, persistent aoe) 
                Attaching a specific runestone to a wand allows a limited number of casts of the 
                specific spell before the wand breaks down and must be replaced 
                Higher tier spells get fewer casts per wand 
                    10 casts is the baseline number of casts 
                    A wand made with a tier 1 rune can cast 10 bolts, while a wand with a tier 2 
                    rune can cast 20 bolts or 10 balls 
                    Up to a tier 5 runewand, which can cast 10 napalm spells, 20 explosions, 30 
                    clouds, 40 balls, or 50 bolts.
                Equipment
                    All equipment can be enchanted with various runes, giving different effects.
                    Melee weapons enchanted with elemental runes deal elemental damage and can 
                    cast special abilities, ranged weapons apply these bonuses to their ammunition. 
                    Gauntlets can be enchanted to work as weaker, longer lasting wands 
                        Enchanted gauntlets can be used to temporarily enchant equipped weapons and 
                        cast simple attack spells 
                    Other equipment (helm, chest, legs, boots, shield, bow) get other abilities 
                        e.g. A helm enchanted with lightning gives increases vision range, boots 
                        enchanted with lightning give increased move speed, etc.
                    Different elements give penalties to the caster while buffing the caster's ability 
                    in that element, and to encourage synergy within an element,
                    enchanted equipment have penalties that are removed by other equipment of the same element.
                    Fire
                        Set Bonus
                            Two Piece
                                Produces a fear aura effect, amplifying all morale damage done to all creatures within range.
                                Morale damage is based on health damage taken.
                            Three Piece
                                
                            Full Set
                                
                        Helmet
                            The wearer's vision includes the light from all tiles set on fire within range, even through walls.
                            This includes torches, lava, and fire elementals.
                        Torso
                            Inflicting fire damage on a target builds up stacks of Heat
                            As Heat increases, movement speed, attack speed, and fire damage increases
                            At max Heat, all nearby terrain is lit on fire,
                            causing heavy damage over time to anyone that enters the area, including the player.
                            This area moves with the player.
                        Legs
                            Teleport to any tile set on fire within range, even through walls.
                            Torches explode when teleported to, setting fire to the surounding tiles and destroying the torch.
                        Melee
                            Deals fire damage with fire damage over time.
                            Special is a ranged pull.
                        Shield
                            Grants immunity to morale damage from fire.
                        Bow
                           Sets arrows on fire.
                           Special is an explosive arrow.
                    Ice
                        Set Bonus
                            Two Piece
                                
                            Three Piece
                                
                            Full Set
                                
                        Helmet
                            
                        Torso
                            Inflicting Ice damage on a target builds up stacks of Chill
                            As Chill increases, all nearby terrain is covered in frost, becoming Chilled Terrain,
                            slowing the movement and attack speed of all nearby creatures over time.
                            At max Chill, all nearby terrain is frozen, becoming Frozen Terrain,
                            causing anyone that enters the area to freeze.
                            This area moves with the player.
                        Legs
                            All Frozen Terrain costs one movement point, regardless of its base cost.
                            Water is now frozen when moved to.
                        Melee
                            
                        Shield
                            Grants immunity to the slowing and freezing from Chilled and Frozen Terrain 
                        Bow
                           
                    Storm
                        Set Bonus
                            Two Piece
                                
                            Three Piece
                                
                            Full Set
                                
                        Helmet
                            Increases vision range and removes vision range penalties from low light.
                        Torso
                            Inflicting lightning damage on a target builds up stacks of Charge
                            As Charge increases, movement speed increases immensely,
                            while attack speed slows and lightning damage increases by an inverse of each other.
                                e.g. On the first attack, attack speed slows to half and damage doubles.
                                On the second attack, attack speed slows to a quarter and damage quadruples.
                                After several attacks, attack speed slows drastically to one attack every few turns,
                                while lightning damage would increase to maintain the same amount of damage per turn.
                            At max Charge, the player discharges.
                            (And does what? A Storm cloud that obscures vision? Chain lightning? Both? Nothing?)
                        Legs
                            Increases Movement speed.
                            All terrain costs one movement point, regardless of its base cost.
                        Melee
                            
                        Shield
                            (What would a high speed, high damage rune set that specializes in Hit and Run attacks
                            need a shield for?)
                            (Enchanting a shield with lightning emanates a bubble shield in a small aoe 
                            around the player.  
                                Allies near the player become shielded, but they lose the shield if 
                                they wander too far away)
                        Bow
                            
                            Special is an infinite range and instant travel time arrow.
                    Earth
                        Set Bonus
                            Two Piece
                                
                            Three Piece
                                
                            Full Set
                                
                        Helmet
                            Allows living creatures within range to be seen, even through walls.
                        Torso
                            Grants an amount of Damage Threshold (DT), Damage Resistance (DR), and Morale Resistance (MR).
                            Taking damage builds up stacks of Protection.
                                Simply getting hit is not enough.
                                This damage must pass through both the DT and DR to count.
                                Morale damage is based on health damage taken.
                            As Protection increases, the armor's base Damage Threshold and Damage Resistance increases.
                            At max Protection. (What happens? Anything at all?)
                        Legs
                            Grants the ability to burrow through the ground.
                            While underground, hostile animals to not attack and docile animals to not run.
                        Melee
                            
                        Shield
                            Takes a fraction of all nearby allies' damage and applies it to the player.
                            Only works while above ground.
                        Bow
                            
                            Special is an arrow that can be shot through walls.
                    Poison
                        Set Bonus
                            Two Piece
                                
                            Three Piece
                                
                            Full Set
                                
                        Helmet
                            
                        Torso
                            
                        Legs
                            
                        Melee
                            
                        Shield
                            
                        Bow
                            
                    Life
                        See Summoning
                Summoning 
                        Enchanting an armor piece with a life rune allows the summoner to control a
                        number of summons equal to the rune's tier.
                            e.g. Enchanting both a helmet and torso with a T3 life rune gives three summons
                            per armor piece, or 6 total.
                        Summons are created by attaching a rune stone to a vessel,
                        which attracts fairies / spirits / valkyries to control the construct.
                        Any buffs or debuffs provided by a summon does not stack with that same type of summon,
                        but does stack with the same buff or debuff from different sources.
                            If someone is wearing both Storm Boots and a Storm Torso, while they're
                            within range of both a Storm Tower and a Storm Support, then they gain a bonus to movement speed
                            from all four sources.
                        Summons come in several varieties:
                            Utility
                                All Utility summons have non combat skills equal to their rune tier.
                                    e.g. A T3 Earth summon can mine T3 rocks and chop down T3 trees.
                                A Utility Summon wears a lower powered version of its element's armor.
                            Tower
                                A Tower summon can't move, but provides a large elemental bonus to an area.
                                Fire
                                    
                                Ice
                                    
                                Storm
                                    Increases the movement speed and vision range of all creatures in range.
                                Earth
                                    Grants an amount of DT, DR, and MR to creatures in range.
                                Poison
                                    
                                Life
                                    Maintains a number of summons equal to ten times the tier of life rune used.
                            Support
                                A Support summon is a much weaker, but mobile, tower summon.
                Shapeshifting?
                
                Enchanted weapons can be evoked to enter into a 'bankai' state, using a large 
                number of charges to become much stronger 
                Enchanting torso armors give aoe abilities relating to the element 
                    Fire gives and aoe burn effect 
                Enchanting multiple armor pieces with the same element gives a set bonus 

            Runecrafting 
                Used to craft runestones used to enchant equipment and attach to vessels for 
                summoning 
                Basic runestones can be used to give minor, permanent buffs to equipment 
                Obsidian runestones can be used to stronger, temporary buffs 
                SPIRIT GRENADES 
                    Single-use summons that explode when thrown, having various effects 

        Characters unlock new crafting items by increasing their levels 
            e.g. Farming level 1 for potatoes, Farming level 5 for wheat, etc. 
    Megaman 
        In Adventure mode, the game world will consist of various 'levels' connected to each other 
        through locked doors 
        Player must defeat bosses to unlock certain doors and progress through the game 
        Defeating bosses unlocks special powers 
        Boss order possibly nonlinear 
            i.e. player can fight bosses in any order, but must defeat all of them before moving on 
            to the final gauntlet ('Sigma stages') 
Tiles-as-objects: 
    Every tile, from the floor to the player to item pickups, is its own object 
    Basic tile attributes include location, sprite, layer, walkability 
    Basic tile methods include draw 
Unity-style layering:  
    'ground' layer, including the floor and walls 
    'actor' layer, including the player and enemies 
    Each tile given a layer, then drawn according to its layer 
        e.g. 'actors' drawn in front of 'ground' 
Game Modes: 
    Campaign and Castle modes will use Runescape-style skills, while Roguelike mode will be more 
    traditionally class-based (e.g. Warrior, Mage, Thief, etc.) 
    Campaign Mode: 
        Story-based, nonrandomized open-world campain 
        Game board is split into different 'levels'; large areas ending with a boss fight 
            Each level is connected to the others, so players can go through levels and fight 
            bosses in a nonlinear way 
    Roguelike Mode: 
        Randomized levels connect to the others through stairs 
        One life; player must restart from the beginning when they die 
    Castle Mode: 
        Dwarf Fortress style strategy game 
        Player controls various units and must build up their city, building workshops, farms, and 
        other buildings 
        Eventual intention to be more like Civilization, where the player creates an empire rather 
        than a singular castle 

Tutorial 
    Initial implementation as a text-only selection from the main menu 
    Add an optional quest-based tutorial later 
    
Lore 
    Based heavily on non-Abrahamic mythologies 
        Germanic 
        Norse 
        Hellenic 
        Egyptian 
        Zoroastrian 

Races 
    Human 
    Dwarf 
    Elf 
    Faerie 
    Goblin 
    Troll 
    Giant 

Classes 
    Few base classes 
        Warrior 
        Mage 
        Thief 
        Arachnomancer 
        etc. 
    Classes the same between races / religions, but names are localised 
        Goblin 
            Mage = Shaman 
Mechanics
    Sequential turns
    Little to no in combat healing
    No in combat summoning
    Elemental Counters
        Ice > Lightning > Earth > Fire > Ice
